<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <!DOCTYPE html>

        <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
        <head>
          <title>Chapter 1</title>
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/softcover.css" type="text/css" />
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/epub.css" type="text/css" />
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/custom.css" type="text/css"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/custom_epub.css" type="text/css"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="styles/page-template.xpgt" />
        </head>

        <body>
          <div id="cid1" class="chapter"><h1><a href="introduction_fragment.xhtml#cid1" class="heading hyperref"><span class="number">Chapter 1 </span>What is CLI?</a></h1>
<p>The command line is a text interface for your computer.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> It’s a program that takes user inputs, these inputs are then forwarded to the computer’s OS (Operating System) for execution.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Using the CLI you can perform numerous tasks with speed and ease.</p>
<p>From the CLI you can navigate through various files and folders on your computer, just as you would with Finder on Mac OS or Windows Explorer on Windows.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> The difference is that the command line is text-based, much more powerful and rhobust.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Some of the biggest advantages are being able to write scripts to automate common tasks and combine simple commands to handle difficult tasks.</p>
<p>In Mac OSX you can access CLI by opening Terminal.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Personally i use <a href="https://www.iterm2.com/">iTerm2</a> and find it way better than Terminal.</p>
</div><div id="cid2" class="section"><h2><a href="introduction_fragment.xhtml#cid2" class="heading hyperref"><span class="number">1.1 </span>How to open command line.</a></h2>
<p>To open Terminal on your Mac OSX, go to the Application folder, then open the Utilities folder.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Adding it to dock is a good idea.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> I generally launch Terminal/iTerm by using spotlight search in OSX.
Just hold onto the command key (⌘) and hit spacebar, enter “Terminal/iTerm”.</p>
</div><div id="cid3" class="section"><h2><a href="introduction_fragment.xhtml#cid3" class="heading hyperref"><span class="number">1.2 </span>Before Getting Started.</a></h2>
<p>Let’s clarify a few things and terms before we get started.</p>
<p><strong>Console:</strong> This is the system as a whole.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> This is both the command line as well as the output from previous commands.</p>
<p><strong>Command Line:</strong> This is the actual line in a console where you type your commands.</p>
<p><strong>Prompt:</strong> This is the beginning of the command line.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> In Terminal/iTerm window we type after the “<code>$</code>”.</p>
<p><strong>Terminal:</strong> Interface to the console.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> The program we use to interact with the console is actually a “terminal emulator”.</p>
</div>
        </body>
        </html>